The Petri Museum of Egyptian Archaeology in London may be small, but it holds around 80,000
objects. Most of them from sites excavated by the Egyptologist Sir William Petri, who
lived from 1835 to 1942. Petri was one of the first people to study ancient Egypt scientifically,
and he was more interested in looking at the ordinary things that people used every day than
raiding their treasure houses. In 1913 he sold his large collection of Egyptian antiquities
to University College London for students and researchers to study. And I'm talking now
to Stephen Quirk, the curator of the Petri Museum. Firstly, what is a curator? What does he
or she do? A curator has to know the collection well. I find the answers to people's questions about
objects in the collection. Do you have a favourite exhibit? I like objects that connect me with the
people that made them, so I feel that I get to know them. I think my favourite object is a pottery
bowl which was found in a tomb from 4,100 years ago. This bowl has two letters written on it, one on
the inside and the other on the outside from a son to his dead parents who were buried in the tomb.
What about looking after the artifacts? Different objects need different conditions. The important
thing is to ask expert conservators what needs to be done, never guess. As the curator, I know the
importance of the objects, but not how best to conserve them. Good conservation is very expensive.
Petri packed the objects properly so that they survived the journey from Egypt to the museum.
Not all archaeologists did that in those days. What is the best thing about working at the
Petri Museum? The best thing is the collection. There are about 80,000 objects, but at the moment
only about 6,000 of them are on display, with another 2,000 in drawers that you can look in easily.
The other 72,000 are all in cupboards so we can't let people see them.
At the moment the museum is very small and cramped. This building was converted from
stables and the collection was only supposed to be here temporarily, but that was over 50 years ago.
We're going to move the collection to a much better building and then all the objects will be in
glass cupboards where they can be seen. It must be a lot of work moving a whole museum.
At the moment we are trying to plan how to use the space we will have in the new building
to show the collection to its best advantage. We want the way we display the objects to give an
idea of where they came from and what Egypt is like, both thousands of years ago and in the present
day. We will also have a small section for Petri himself and his work and you will be able to see
all the objects that are just in store at the moment. How will you explain everything to the museum
visitors? I don't like information labels. You see people going around museums or art galleries
reading the labels and not looking at the objects. It's better to use big graphic panel
sharing timelines and how the objects appeared in life. It's very important to talk to lots of
different people about what should be on the panels and we are talking to as many people as
possible about all our plans for the move. Do you think Petri would approve of moving his collection?
Petri said that his collection was for students and researchers and was useless for display.
This is because there aren't big flashy objects in this collection. I disagree with him completely.
Thank you very much, Stephen Quirk.
